changelog: add entry for fine-grained scoping in Personal Access Tokens (#5315)
FlowFuse/website: src/changelog/2026/07/scoped-pats.md

date: 2026-07-02 15:30:00
authors: ["serban-costin"]
tags:
- changelog
issues:
- https://github.com/FlowFuse/flowfuse/issues/7411
---

Personal Access Tokens now support fine-grained scoping. You can restrict a token to specific teams, limit it to read-only operations, or control whether it
carries admin privileges. This is especially useful when handing tokens to AI agents or MCP clients, where you want to limit what the token can reach.

## Team scoping

You can now scope a token to one or more teams. A scoped token can only access resources within those teams. If you don't select any teams, the token works
across all teams you belong to, same as before.

When you're added to a new team, scoped tokens don't automatically pick it up. You need to explicitly add the new team to any token that should have access.

## Read-only mode

A new toggle lets you mark a token as read-only. When enabled, the token can only perform read operations across all resources it has access to. Any write
operation will be rejected.

## Admin opt-in

Tokens created by admin users no longer carry admin privileges by default. When you create a new token, it behaves as a regular user token, using your team

> roles instead of the admin bypass. If you need the token to have admin capabilities, you have to explicitly check the admin opt-in option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
roles instead of full admin access. If you need the token to have admin capabilities, you have to explicitly check the admin opt-in option.
```

Think Admin Bypass is a bit of a internal phrase we've adopted.

Existing admin-owned tokens have been migrated with admin opt-in enabled, so they continue to work as before. Only newly created tokens default to
non-admin.

## How scoping works

A token's effective permissions are always the intersection of your real permissions and the token's restrictions. Scoping can only narrow access, never

> widen it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These options allow you to narrow the scope of a token's permissions; you cannot create a token with more access than your user has.
```
